Hello again lovely God.
People in this video we gonna finish off heiss meissner's by finishing off the tutorial and what we'll
do is display objective text to the player and by objective text.
I mean that text describes the objective.
Not text.
There's clearly an objectively text.
Ok so what is actually tauriel text.
Need to do every stage.
The tutorial has to have a sound text right so the first is going to be about movement.
So here's how you move the second is going to be about opening a door.
Here's how you open a door.
And we need to move on to the next stage of that when we get to the ject.
So somehow we need to split the text down into a set into separate sections and be able to call those
sections.
And we've already done that we solve that with dictionaries and loops.
So we're just going to use dictionaries and I'm going to put my dictionaries inside a Jason File.
You don't have to do that.
You could just use a dictionary.
But I'm going to use an adjacent file because I think it's good practice if you ever want to localize
your game.
If I were to release high mice's an English French German Japanese Korean Mandarin minyon whatever then
Jason's allowed me to do that.
Before we go into that though I'd like to fix a bug observe if I open up the tutorial something you
own two scenes levels tutorial press play.
Everything is normal right.
I move into this area here.
We update the objective level what happens if I move back into it though
every time I enter this area we're moving forward an objective and I don't want that.
But that's an easy enough fix.
If I go into a tutorial and I'm in a going to distraction free mode like this and one I do is remove
this line here my line 14 remove child marker.
Wait a minute yeah.
Why are they doing that.
Well I'll show you one doing that when I go to update position.
I'm going to pass through a number and that number is going to be the objective stage I'm at.
So let's start with zero and then one two three and four.
I'm not too concerned because I've already put these in order right.
But if you wanted to.
The move is going to be objective 1 2 3 and 4.
I'm using the same format we'd use in an array.
So let's take a look at our objective areas or other objective markers and you'll see movies one two
three four.
It's not 0 1 2 3 4.
I didn't off by one error while talking.
Ah OK.
So now I need to do is just change get child 0 to get Child number whatever number this is.
It will work.
Let's double check.
Here we are in game and I can walk right up to this area.
I can open the door through move back and look.
It's actually moving you back to this objective which is great because if the player for some reason
forgets what they want do.
We can tell them again.
Awesome piece of nuff except Buck.
Now let's create a gooey.
So I'm to make a brand new scene.
You saw it coming didn't you.
And my basic note is going to be a canvas layer because I don't want the gooey elements to move around
the screen.
I want to stay focussed on the canvas on the viewport and I will call this tutorial golly.
And let's make this nice as simple and a save that a scene.
And an instance in in before I forget so this insist that in too much tauriel Scenes I'm not instance
in an empty canvas.
Well let's fill.
Let's make a child of that and that's going to be a good rule.
Need a pop up because I want things to show.
Not sure.
So a pop up as a child that pop up.
I want a nine patch rectangle.
All right.
Where's my pop up.
It's invisible.
There it is.
My 9 patch.
First let's put something to actually look at some split texture into the night.
That's right.
Going to graphics interface pin.
Gee what a SCROD for those glass panels.
I miss those glass panels we haven't used in a while and I'm feeling normal.
All the corners.
So so going a bit small.
I'm going to move my pop up and not my eye patch rect So let's drag that out to decent size.
I set my nine patch rectangle to four so it'll follow the size I'm dragging.
That's looking pretty good.
This is not why I finally want it but for now let's get the nine patch rectangle looking right.
Let's put in a patch much.
Now these are quite big corners so we reckon 20 pixels.
Others look pretty good so.
20 pixels on each side.
Great and a save that because I'm paranoid OK let's put this in a decent spot.
I'm thinking right down here so let's for any further set the anchor on the anchor to the bottom right
where ever the bottom right it actually I mean bottom centred on this centre bottom.
And let's actually move you to a boat.
Air should be good.
Now remember this isn't going to show.
When we test it so I want to test it.
I need to go into the tutorial open tutorial script and on ready.
I need to show this pop up.
So let's do a tutorial going pop up dot shot as the other looks.
I said that's good.
One nice feature is if I recites the screen it's going to move on for probably after tweaking.
But I'll figure that in a minute.
For now I will put my objective in here to do that.
I want to label to Ector to sexy I'm doing as a child of the pop up.
Oh hang on a second.
Look what I did.
I move the rectangle outside of the pop up.
Okay I'm gonna go back to my.
Rect put to positions 0 0 all those times I told you remember your mood.
Making sure the parent not the child.
Look what did I get your mental anchor to the bottom right.
Because I think that means when I move that section of the screen you can update yourself which is what
I want.
But you going to position yourself to the centre bottom let's view us.
And look the anchors moved didn't want that.
So anchor.
Bottom right.
Why did god decide that I wanted to move it.
I don't know.
It just it.
I don't want to flush against the bottom of the screen I want a margin.
So on the pop up let's add a margin let margins going to be 60 from the bottom.
No it's going to be negative six from the bottom.
That's actually a bit much as netlist do negative 40 and from the top.
So I of Tracht 40 from that value and that should look good.
Let's give it a label so as a child of pop up label.
You and going make this a full rectangle So the labels going to cover all of this.
But I want to go right up to the edge.
So once again margins I'm thinking 15 yeah looks good lifting from the top 15 from the right.
I think any negative 15 I do mean negative 15 and negative lifting from the bottom.
And let's apply our themes summoning a back up to pop up because that's our top control node and a load
my thing and let's put it some test text to see how this looks.
All right.
I want the text probably around that size a good size.
But look I'm going over the sites.
Yes.
Well we're doing a set auto wrap.
Now I didn't update automatically.
I had to go off-screen off the node and back again.
But there once was a lovely cucumber so much.
I could play around the margins of stuff but that's a good starting point.
Great.
So now we have a basic goalie that's going to show what we do see that.
Now we need to create a Jason File.
Okay.
Jason files one of those things that have a few moving parts.
But first let's write it.
I'm an open atom and I've got here a nice empty atom file again if you want to do this as a dictionary
you can do it there Jason.
Jason's going to be as a dictionary.
Now in case you forgot and I will link again the reference to how to read to Jason.
But essentially we need a key and a value making a dictionary.
But the key has to be a string and that's going to be important later.
Alright so by key 0 as a string is going to have the string I was going to do it was teach you how to
move.
OK.
So I've typed my first line Wapiti first day of training.
Right now I'm not getting any error correction so one would do is save this as a Jason.
I want to save it in the right folder.
So let's go back and to got to and I'm going to go we should put this in our scenes.
Yeah.
But in the same scene I would put it in all levels.
Next to tutorial one would do as well.
Right click to show a farmhouse ajar.
And because room windows actually a copy this path is going to a little bit different iMac a little
bit different in Linux distro.
Basically make sure you're saving the file to a location that makes sense to you.
OK.
Back to Adam and I'm going to save those.
And I'm going to copy my paste my path right there in here.
I want to call it tutorial messages dot jsow dot gesso N is going to tell Adam.
This is a Jason File.
Please put in that error correction.
All right.
Welcome to you first day of training heiss Meister please move to the next objective marker.
Use the W A S D D to move OK.
That is entry 0.
So my key is zero.
My value is what is this string here.
To add the next key and it's put a comma.
I was going down a line and that's going to be one that put the colon there.
It should now know you are a key.
Alright so first move.
Second as door.
And now I'm going to write the text the door and fastforward do that.
And my next one says excellent.
Next will practise interacting with objects.
Open the door ahead of you by clicking on it with the mouse.
Remember that you'll need to be close enough to touch it.
OK so what's next my next.
My night vision tutorials comma an image you repeat the process again.
So I now have three.
The loot is had in their briefcase pick it up by walking over it and four head to the chopper.
Sorry got carried away.
The exit is now unlocked.
Head towards your convenience.
Save that.
And that is now ready to go back into God.
We go alright.
We we've now got a Jason File and we can't see it.
Why.
Because God can't parse Jason automatically we can't drag it into the inspector So it's going to hide
that file.
That's actually a little annoying but I go into shock.
I'm a farm manager.
It is here alright.
Let's grab that script.
We have a couple options.
We could just point to it in script.
I'm going to put it in the global.
I didn't use global last time.
I feel like this is a good time to use it just so remind you that we have one so that's going to our
global script.
Did you do.
And this is seems really an asset link.
It's a scene so I'm going to make a brand new comment.
File.
Links must be changed manually.
Great Alright variable tutorial messages equals.
And now I'm going to get that scene to get this file.
I can't have been doing normally right.
I can't go to scenes when I put it to do.
I can't just go to my levels and right click on it.
So instead of going to back up a folder right.
Right click on levels.
Will you copy that path.
And then I have to type in the file name file name it's tutorial mashers not Jason and ALSA I'm worried
about my typos skills so I'm going to go into it as if I'm renaming it in Windows.
Going to site the whole thing.
Copy that back and God.
Oh and just paste what I've copied so now I don't have to worry about any typos because you've seen
me type.
Great back and she torro great.
We now have a Jason File ready to pass so let's make a function called parts Jason.
And you know what I'm going to do it.
Head of.
Update Twitter.
And so it's going to be called gets Jason.
And we are very first option.
Function gets Jess right.
Now what I need here is to use file.
If I had a use that to type it in here hold control and click on it.
Because as an example we can copy almost verbatim one of do actually just use this load.
Copy that and go work around it.
This is what we did in lonely lips but rather than explain every line I'm going to paste it PASI it
has messed up the tab that's a little annoying.
I'm going to put all those back there.
Or at first I need to do.
I need to change the file were opening when not open and use a saved game that we are opening.
Global dots.
Tutorial messages.
I guess that's the far opening and we are reading it so that doesn't need changing.
We then make it brand new variable called content.
And we're getting contact as text.
We're then closing the content and returning it but we need to parse this because as a Jason Farmall
checks faster I'm going to go halves.
J s o n and we are passing that as content.
Notice how it's returning this data and returned this value here.
So back up to get Jason.
What I actually do is make a brand new variable called text and text in ready.
Each calls get Jason and the J we're getting is the Jason conversion the Jason reading of content.
The content is the text with in the tutorial messages file.
So we've done this before and luny lips feel free to go back look over that video or to look at the
documentation for any file.
But either way the J12 shred should now be available as a dictionary with loaded the dictionary.
So now will do is within my update pointer position when we play this file.
I'm going to get the tutorial message text which is this label.
Text equals and what is an eagle is going to equal text.
And I want to get the value that's under the key and the key is being passed in.
Right so I don't have to keep writing this function however.
Do you remember when I said that the keys in Jason have to be a string and this is not a string.
This is an integer so I need to convert that to a string.
Right we're casting as a string.
What was your first day of training heiss meister.
Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo.
Hahaha look at that.
Now we are going a little bit over the text here my files a bit big.
I'm actually gonna make that a little bit clearer by going into here which drag you out like this.
No I save you and run this scene again.
Awesome.
Now one thing I do want to do is get rid of these random white bricks.
I put these line breaks in because the bees would read.
They're actually get him away.
So let's go back and my Jason File.
Room out of it.
OK.
So this will now do automatically if I do want to line break because some converter from Jason I can
put one in here so I could put one there and one here.
That paragraph should just play.
Save that and see if that worked.
Do do do do.
Fantastic.
What was that vision mode going on.
You're holding that up to the awesome cover is I do want to change before we go any further.
I want the gooey elements to vanish we're in night vision mode day because I think that's going to be
a more interesting and compelling thing to happen so let's add tutorial to that group.
Well first let's go take a look what that group is so let's open our play a script which is right here
and back into distraction free mode.
Let's see interface night vision mode interface dark remote so that's what we care about so I'm going
to copy that as a reference and get back in to my tutorial script.
Awesome.
So I want to add to it.
Let's do that before we do anything else.
The very first thing we do is add to the group and I manage a group interface that I typed that right.
I did look at that.
There is.
Now I need a function for dog vision mode.
I can put this right down the bottom
function.
Night vision mode and all I would do is hide the going.
So you do a pop up dot.
Right.
OK.
The other one is dark vision mode.
Is that right.
Yes I guess so.
Dark vision mode which is when we don't have night vision.
I'm just going to duplicate that and move it down and sort of hide.
You're going to show.
Let's take a look.
Awesome.
Now there is one tiny problem here right.
We've just created a system one a walk through here and open the door.
So we go to night vision modem Nicklaus night vision metaphor I can see a walk down here the objectives
going out come up and I can't see it.
Elissa Wall back then play a has to know to come out.
So I've got a challenge for you and me close.
This shows a gooey when we need it.
I'm like the gooey to come up even if the player is in night vision mode when they get to the night
vision mode objective.
So pause the video give it a shot.
We come back I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
All right.
So the easiest thing to do to be honest is just I'm going to switch back to this mode.
We already have this code here.
The important bit however is when we do this because these areas are the objective complete state right.
So you've learned to move go here.
If I put it in the briefcase that's pointless I need to put it right here.
So on objective night vision body entered update the position and dark vision.
And that should do it.
Let's take a look.
The walk over here look at the dog managed node and there and it's awesome very final thing to do this
video.
It's a little bit too easy for the player to see what they're doing.
So let's make this darker.
Let's go into our night vision out.
And I'm going to change the value of night vision.
So look at it right now it's this blue.
Let's go really.
This.
So the plan needs night vision to get through here.
So what's this.
This is that value 0 3 0 8 1 see some scanner update that in my night vision notes.
In my dark moate not night vision that would be bad.
OK.
Now that's more on the scene.
And that's very dark and moody isn't it.
And now the plan needs not to get through.
And there's also going to impact the actual level.
Awesome.
That brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've looked at how to display Twitter messages when a needed aim of building a dictionary
and Jason's skills from Louis lips.
So awesome work.
And I'll see you in the next video.